---
layout: default
title: How Would I Design a Do-It Yourself Home Page?
---
# A Very Specific Home Page Editor

For dry cleaners, or hair aalons or schools or dentists or something. A type of business
that has a physical address, hours of operation, what to expect. It may also
offer different amenities, types of cleaning, Most importantly, it has a location 
location location that will work for the clients of their service.

# Example: PreSchools

If someone wanted to start a school, I'd show them examples of similar 
schools and get them to click on important details that match theirs.

Start the process by covering the entire page with a yellow sheen,
like a highlighter pen. Overlay this with a descriptive modal, that 
gave the instruction just to click on details that matched your business.

Mousing over a SchoolCallout would dim most of the information, except 
for age range and daily schedule.

Mousing over a UI element, such as "18 months" or "8:30am" would use the 
dayglow marker pen for that particular SchoolCallout-feature (or maybe
call it "MinimumAge" or "MondayStart"). Some SchoolCallouts would 
highlight "coming soon", which seems like one of the important binary
choices (but force them to refine it later).

Clicking one of the ultra-hightlighted words (such as "18 months")
would boldify it, and also change the similar page elemeent. 
Their previous minimum age would change to strike-out font next to their new
choice (for example, the next SchoolCallout on the page would have its
"24 months" minimum age
changed to "~24 months~ **18 months**").

Allow them some time to pick a start time, end time, or max age, but
then show the instructional overlay again:
  "
  Great! Looks like you've got it!
  Now click the 'Explore School' button
  and you can fill in more details.
  "
  
Each SchoolCallout on the page would blur everything except the  
'Explore School' button. Clicking would bring you to a blurred out
school. The name and location would be blurred. The Gallery would
have a slimmed down "your photo heere" replacement - but also blurred.

If they take too long, offer to show them some other school that might
be more similar to theirs.

With a few clicks they could continue refining their storefront.
Eventually, the highlight will shift to text-entry fields - with a
tooltip to say "double click anything to edit it"

As they shift through schools, the UI configuration highlights,
with a note to click the "thumbs up" icon when you like the layout.

As you get more complete, the overlay points toward the 
SchoolFooter element with "Don't forget your email, phone and address!"
