---
layout: default
title: we-are-all-outsourcees
---

<div id="page">




			
		

			

# 09.10.07 # {#09.10.07}

 
			

## [We Are All Outsourcees](http://www.johnbaylor.org/2007/09/10/we-are-all-outsourcees/ "Permanent link to We Are All Outsourcees") ## {#[WeAreAllOutsourcees](http//www.johnbaylor.org/2007/09/10/we-are-all-outsourcees/"PermanentlinkWeAreAllOutsourcees")}

			

Posted in [Uncategorized](http://www.johnbaylor.org/category/uncategorized/ 
"View all posts in Uncategorized") at 11:30 pm by JohnB

		
			

Last night’s [Tech Nation program](http://itc.conversationsnetwork.org/shows/detail1913.html 
"Tech Nation program") had an interview with Rob Levy of BEA.  He had some 
deep insights into dealing with outsourcing companies.  In essence, either 
make them as peers or at least treat them as peers.  This is a refreshing change 
to what I’ve seen, not only when outsourcing, but when purchasing companies 
outright to be “business units” within the greater company.  In the words of 
one friend who works at one of these subsidiaries, they feel like the “red-headed 
step child”.  It definitely puts the _sub_ in subsidiary!

Rob Levy made the point that once these places become free-standing entities, 
with enough work and resources to work independently, then its perfectly normal 
for them to treat the company headquarters as an outsourcee instead of a parent.  
I can’t imagine a lot of C-level executives (especially in my company) giving 
this type of free rein.

Whether you agree with him or not, its worth a listen…

[_editor's note: when jotting down my initial notes for this post I found myself 
writing that they were treated "as _if they were_ peers" - which just goes 
to show how deeply engrained this sort of thinking is.  The headquarters has 
the illusion of control, but its only a offering from the employees - if you 
make the company too difficult or unstable to work at you just may find you've 
lost all your employees._]

			
			

			[Permalink](http://www.johnbaylor.org/2007/09/10/we-are-all-outsourcees/ "Permanent link to We Are All Outsourcees")
						

		
		

			
		

	 
				
	

	

## Leave a Comment ## {#LeaveaComment}

	
		

		
			

			Name (required)
			

	
			

			E-mail (required)
			

	
			

			URI
			

		
		

		

		

		

		
		

	
	
	




</div>
