---
layout: default
title: rjs-error-typeerror-element-has-no-properties
---

<div id="page">




			
		

			

# 09.21.07 # {#09.21.07}

 
			

## [RJS Error: TypeError: $(element) has no properties](http://www.johnbaylor.org/2007/09/21/rjs-error-typeerror-element-has-no-properties/ "Permanent link to RJS Error: TypeError: $(element) has no properties") ## {#[RJSErrorTypeError$(element)hasnoproperties](http//www.johnbaylor.org/2007/09/21/rjs-error-typeerror-element-has-no-properties/"PermanentlinkRJSErrorTypeError$(element)hasnoproperties")}

			

Posted in [ruby](http://www.johnbaylor.org/category/ruby/ "View all posts in 
ruby") at 6:11 pm by JohnB

		
			

I received this error message late yesterday while testing out RJS templates 
and link_to_remote(). I did a google search and didn’t find anything useful 
– some questions that were asked and never answered; one that said “rebuild 
your entire app”. Finally, I opened the page in another browser and it worked 
fine. huh?

doh! Rails nearly-seamless simplicity strikes again!

I had just changed my view code (.rhtml file) to include a new div that I wanted 
to be updated in an AJAXy manner. So I clicked the link in the browser (remember: 
this is AJAX – no page refresh) and expected my new div to be replaced with 
the neat new content. Nope. I had to do a decidedly non-AJAX page refresh so 
my browser would now _have_ the neat new div – only then could the div be replaced. 

Its so simple to swap between edit and test, edit and test, edit and test, 
that the few times you’re required to step out of the cycle seem like a huge 
hassle. But not when compared to every _other_ development process I’ve used. 

I had a similar experience with the routes.rb file. Unlike models and controllers 
and non-AJAX views, the routes.rb file only gets loaded when the web server 
starts. Stopping and starting the server fixed the problem – but I think I 
had to run into it multiple times before I realized what the issue was. A minor 
pot-hole on the smooth Rails path.

To mis-quote a bumper sticker: the worst day coding Ruby is better than the 
best day fighting C++.

			
			

			[Permalink](http://www.johnbaylor.org/2007/09/21/rjs-error-typeerror-element-has-no-properties/ "Permanent link to RJS Error: TypeError: $(element) has no properties")
						

		
		

			
		

	

##  1 Comment [»](#postcomment "Jump to the comments form")			 ## {#1Comment[»](#postcomment"Jumpcommentsform")}

 

	

1. 				
Dik said,
				
August 24, 2008 at [6:48 pm](#comment-64 "Permanent link to this comment") 
 
				
				
Informative. I like it. [](http://bride-makeup.ru)Will it be continued?
			

## Leave a Comment ## {#LeaveaComment}

	
		

		
			

			Name (required)
			

	
			

			E-mail (required)
			

	
			

			URI
			

		
		

		

		

		

		
		

	
	
	




</div>
