---
layout: default
title: faulty-sensory-awareness-water-never-lies
---

<div id="page">




			
		

			

# 11.18.07 # {#11.18.07}

 
			

## [Faulty Sensory Awareness – Water Never Lies](http://www.johnbaylor.org/2007/11/18/faulty-sensory-awareness-water-never-lies/ "Permanent link to Faulty Sensory Awareness – Water Never Lies") ## {#[FaultySensoryAwareness–WaterNeverLies](http//www.johnbaylor.org/2007/11/18/faulty-sensory-awareness-water-never-lies/"PermanentlinkFaultySensoryAwareness–WaterNeverLies")}

			

Posted in [health](http://www.johnbaylor.org/category/health/ "View all posts 
in health") at 11:16 am by JohnB

		
			

I’m learning how to use my body, with the help of [Amira](http://amiraalvarez.com/), 
my Alexander teacher. The [Alexander Technique](http://www.alexandertech.org/) 
has a number of techniques for reminding us that (a) we are usually working 
harder than we need to and (b) what we _think_ we are doing is not always what 
we are _actually_ doing. This latter aspect is known as “Faulty Sensory Awareness” 
because, although we may think we are standing up straight, any observer (or 
ourself looking in a mirror) can tell that we’re leaning one way or the other. 

This became very clear to me last week as I was swimming laps. When kicking 
a length on my back, I tend to believe I’m looking straight up at the sky. 
Although I don’t really need my goggles in this position I usually have them 
on anyway – I can see the beautiful sky better. A side benefit of wearing the 
goggles is that, if I splash, I don’t get water in my eye.  Last week I happened 
to be kicking on my back with my goggles _off_ and noticed that my left eye 
was getting a bit of water in it, while my right eye was dry. Just to verify, 
I made sure that it happened in both directions down the lane – that it wasn’t 
due to my neighbor’s wake in the next lane. Nope. Unless the pool was tilted, 
it was me.

Although I thought my nose was pointed straight up, and it certainly felt “normal”, 
the water was telling me that I was ever so slightly tilted to the left!

So, if you’ve ever wondered about whether your body could work better than 
it does, give [Amira](http://www.alexandertech.org/teachers/CA.html#2501) ([or 
any Alexander teacher](http://www.alexandertech.org/teachers/FindTeachers.php)) 
a try. As I always say: “She hasn’t killed me yet!”. (BTW: that is an inside 
joke with Amira – she wouldn’t allow that quote on her website so I had to 
come up with [a different one](http://amiraalvarez.com/lessons_endorsements.html)) 

			
			

			[Permalink](http://www.johnbaylor.org/2007/11/18/faulty-sensory-awareness-water-never-lies/ "Permanent link to Faulty Sensory Awareness – Water Never Lies")
						

		
		

			
		

	

##  1 Comment [»](#postcomment "Jump to the comments form")			 ## {#1Comment[»](#postcomment"Jumpcommentsform")}

 

	

1. 				
Bill Vroom said,
				
November 18, 2007 at [11:30 am](#comment-2 "Permanent link to this comment") 
 
				
				
A very good source of info about the Alexander Technique can be found at their 
website: [http://alexandertechnique.com](http://alexandertechnique.com)
			

## Leave a Comment ## {#LeaveaComment}

	
		

		
			

			Name (required)
			

	
			

			E-mail (required)
			

	
			

			URI
			

		
		

		

		

		

		
		

	
	
	




</div>
