---
layout: default
title: book-recommendation-the-rails-way
---

<div id="page">




			
		

			

# 01.29.08 # {#01.29.08}

 
			

## [Book Recommendation: The Rails Way](http://www.johnbaylor.org/2008/01/29/book-recommendation-the-rails-way/ "Permanent link to Book Recommendation: The Rails Way") ## {#[BookRecommendationRailsWay](http//www.johnbaylor.org/2008/01/29/book-recommendation--rails-way/"PermanentlinkBookRecommendationRailsWay")}

			

Posted in [Uncategorized](http://www.johnbaylor.org/category/uncategorized/ 
"View all posts in Uncategorized") at 12:53 pm by JohnB

		
			

[The Rails Way](http://www.amazon.com/Rails-Way-Addison-Wesley-Professional-Ruby/dp/0321445619 
"Amazon") is a Ruby on Rails reference book that I bought on [Josh Susser’s 
recommendation](http://blog.hasmanythrough.com/2007/12/20/book-review-the-rails-way).  
I’ve actually, to my family’s dismay, been _reading_ the darn thing instead 
of just _referring_ to it like one would a, well, reference book.  A lot of 
Rails’isms that I had a vague idea about I now understand with much more clarity.  
It will definitely come in handy soon.

			
			

			[Permalink](http://www.johnbaylor.org/2008/01/29/book-recommendation-the-rails-way/ "Permanent link to Book Recommendation: The Rails Way")
						

		
		

			
		

	

##  2 Comments [»](#postcomment "Jump to the comments form")			 ## {#2Comments[»](#postcomment"Jumpcommentsform")}

 

	

1. 				
[Robert](http://wombatnation.com/) said,
				
February 11, 2008 at [10:05 am](#comment-9 "Permanent link to this comment") 
 
				
				
Congrats on the new job!
			
2. 				
Richard Berger said,
				
December 7, 2008 at [7:51 pm](#comment-273 "Permanent link to this comment") 
 
				
				
I got a linked in email and you were on the RHS of an update (I only read the 
right hand sides) – and noted that you were connected to Ben Netick, whom I 
knew from my job at 2Bridge. Which led me to your site, which lead me to RoR. 
 
My quick story is that I read some RoR book – and thought that concept was 
great, but couldn’t get past the Ruby language – something just didn’t click 
for me. But I didn’t give up on the concept and a few months later read Groovy 
and Grails – and have shifted all my development to Grails and couldn’t be 
happier. It is one of the biggest productivity increases I have seen in many 
years of software.
Hope you are doing well….  
 RB
			

## Leave a Comment ## {#LeaveaComment}

	
		

		
			

			Name (required)
			

	
			

			E-mail (required)
			

	
			

			URI
			

		
		

		

		

		

		
		

	
	
	




</div>
