---
layout: default
title: last-of-a-generation
---

<div id="page">




			
		

			

# 10.01.08 # {#10.01.08}

 
			

## [Last of a Generation](http://www.johnbaylor.org/2008/10/01/last-of-a-generation/ "Permanent link to Last of a Generation") ## {#[LastofaGeneration](http//www.johnbaylor.org/2008/10/01/last-of-a-generation/"PermanentlinkLastofaGeneration")}

			

Posted in [Uncategorized](http://www.johnbaylor.org/category/uncategorized/ 
"View all posts in Uncategorized") at 10:02 pm by JohnB

		
			

My aunt Barbara passed away yesterday. We were never close, but she was the 
last of her siblings to pass on, even though she was the oldest. I know that 
was hard on her. Now its finally her turn. May she find rest.

She played a pivotal role in my life, long before I was even conceived. After 
her mother, my grandmother, had passed away, Barb took it upon herself to put 
my mother through college. I doubt she ever understood this nuclear engineering 
thing my mother studied, but she supported it. And eventually my mother met 
another engineer and here I am today.

It wasn’t unexpected – she had been declining for a while – but I’m surprised 
at how choked up I am about her passing. Outspoken, disapproving, warm and 
alive – often in the same sentence.

I remember a message she once left on our answering machine. Her voice sounded 
so similar to my dead mother’s voice, with the same Pennsylvania accent, that 
it sent chills up my spine.

Thanks Barb, for all you’ve done and all you were – you’ll be missed – and 
in the end, what more is there, than to be missed?

			
			

			[Permalink](http://www.johnbaylor.org/2008/10/01/last-of-a-generation/ "Permanent link to Last of a Generation")
						

		
		

			
		

	 
				
	

	

## Leave a Comment ## {#LeaveaComment}

	
		

		
			

			Name (required)
			

	
			

			E-mail (required)
			

	
			

			URI
			

		
		

		

		

		

		
		

	
	
	




</div>
