---
layout: default
title: rubyconf-2009
---

<div id="page">




			
		

			

# 11.30.09 # {#11.30.09}

 
			

## [RubyConf 2009](http://www.johnbaylor.org/2009/11/30/rubyconf-2009/ "Permanent link to RubyConf 2009") ## {#[RubyConf2009](http//www.johnbaylor.org/2009/11/30/rubyconf-2009/"PermanentlinkRubyConf2009")}

			

Posted in [ruby](http://www.johnbaylor.org/category/ruby/ "View all posts in 
ruby") at 11:05 am by JohnB

		
			

I was recently given the opportunity of attending [Ruby Conf 2009](http://www.rubyconf.org/). 
It was a lot of fun being with a few hundred of my Rubyist peers. You can now 
see for yourself via the recently-uploaded [session videos](http://rubyconf2009.confreaks.com/) 
or the [RubyConf-in-22 minutes video](http://blog.envylabs.com/2009/12/rubyconf-videos/). 
Or read [other](http://www.tbray.org/ongoing/When/200x/2009/11/21/RubyConf-2009 
"Tim Bray's") RubyConf wrap-ups. Due to the sheer amount of information, my 
personal wrap-up here is in the boring _at-this-time-I-saw-this_ format. I’ll 
try to have links to each talk, but they aren’t all available at the time of 
writing this – I’ll try to update the list later.

Wednesday night I received my ticket via email from [a nice guy in New York](http://jake.howmeta.com/) 
who couldn’t go at the last minute. Lucky for me!

Thursday 9am the conference started with a keynote from [“Matz” (Yukihiro Matsumoto)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yukihiro_Matsumoto) 
the creator of Ruby. It was not the most interesting talk I’d heard, but everyone 
listened politely. Immediately after Matz’s talk I picked up my free [Poken](http://www.poken.com/about) 
device to track the people I met. The Poken was kinda fun at the conference 
but not very useful unless you’re near a lot of new people who also have them. 
But at the conference it was kinda fun to touch someone’s Poken to capture 
a digital business card.

Thursday 10am I attended the [BERT and ERNIE](http://rubyconf2009.confreaks.com/19-nov-2009-10-25-bert-and-ernie-scaling-your-ruby-site-with-erlang-tom-preston-werner.html) 
talk from one of the GitHub guys, which was fairly close to [what I’d already 
read](http://github.com/blog/531-introducing-bert-and-bert-rpc) of the new 
GitHub server infrastructure. Its amazing what you can do with smart people 
and enough servers to effectively distribute your workload.

Thursday 11am to 4pm I listened to talks on [Bits and Bytes](http://rubyconf2009.confreaks.com/19-nov-2009-11-15-bits-bytes-and-blobs-brian-mitchell.html), 
[DSLs](http://rubyconf2009.confreaks.com/19-nov-2009-13-15-dsls-code-generation-and-new-domains-for-ruby-joel-vanderwerf.html) 
and Flying Robots – the quality of these talks was inconsistent and there was 
not much material I wasn’t already aware of, but I met some interesting people 
at each session.

At 4pm Thursday was a [talk on MongoDB](http://www.slideshare.net/mdirolf/mongodb-at-rubyconf?src=related_normal&rel=2557295) 
that cleared up some misconceptions I had. This dovetailed nicely with the 
Friday 9am “Not Only SQL” talk about other non-SQL database options. Unfortunately, 
I don’t see any obvious winner over my current use of PostgreSQL – there probably 
is a better one for our particular needs but the cost, in time, of trying the 
various options seems prohibitive.

Thursday 5pm was my last session of the day, with a presentation on Experiment 
Driven Development. The basic idea is that rather than relying on your best 
guess, or your Marketing guy’s best guess about a new feature, you just test 
both new ideas on actual users before committing to a definite plan of action. 
He hasn’t put up any slides for his talk (he has a 1 month old baby at home) 
so you’ll have to rely on my judgement that it was interesting. For me, it 
means that I’ll be looking for opportunities to capture metrics to measure 
user response to system changes. I expect the rest of the [ConFreaks’](http://rubyconf2009.confreaks.com/) 
videos will be online in the next week or two.

Rather than stay for the 8pm [Lightning Talks](http://blog.hasmanythrough.com/2009/11/20/rubyconf-2009-lightning-talks) 
I went with my friend [Dan](http://twitter.com/dan) and his friends to a yummy 
tapas restaurant in the Mission.

Friday I learned more than I wanted to know about ongoing improvements to the 
RubyGems system, partial evaluation of Ruby (pseudo JIT compilation) and an 
alpha-level persistence layer called Aqua.

At lunch on Friday (and again on Saturday), I watched a fun programming competition 
to see which team could refactor a chunk of code better and faster. It was 
all very subjective, but gave a real-world view into how pair programming actually 
works and other people’s ideas on what makes for a consistent test-driven process. 

Friday 2pm was a talk on the latest in [MacRuby](http://www.macruby.org/), 
a very promising Ruby VM running on top of Objective-C using native objects 
and garbage collection. It looks promising but I won’t play with it until the 
0.5 release is officially out (any day now).

Friday 3pm was Jim Weirich’s talk on SOLID Ruby that expanded on some ideas 
about Object Oriented Programming that were [originally described by “Uncle 
Bob”](http://butunclebob.com/ArticleS.UncleBob.PrinciplesOfOod). He is a good 
speaker who really knows his topic so my high expectations were happily met. 

Friday 4pm was a fun talk by the always-interesting creator of GitHub, Chris 
Wanstrath, on what Rubyists can learn from Python.

Friday evening I attended the [Startup Crawl](http://maps.google.com/maps/ms?ie=UTF8&hl=en&msa=0&msid=116134150482170869797.00047832bca7c11a7cb41&ll=37.790184,-122.412672&spn=0.045309,0.066261&z=14 
"Map of Startup Crawl venues"), eating tasty food, drinking beer and meeting 
a few people. [Scribd](http://www.scribd.com/) had the best food; [Heroku](http://heroku.com) 
had the best ambiance (and one of their guys solved a technical problem I had 
on one of my personal sites – nice bonus – instead of telling me to [RTFM](http://docs.heroku.com/rack)). 

Saturday I woke a bit late but made it in time for the [Clojure](http://clojure.org/) 
talk – it seems like a good language for concurrency, but not nearly as easy 
to write as Ruby. Tim Bray has a nice [ongoing series of blog posts](http://www.tbray.org/ongoing/When/200x/2009/09/27/Concur-dot-next) 
on various languages that focus on concurrency. He recently [delved](http://www.tbray.org/ongoing/When/200x/2009/10/26/Messaging) 
[into](http://www.tbray.org/ongoing/When/200x/2009/11/11/Clojure-References) 
[Clojure](http://www.tbray.org/ongoing/When/200x/2009/11/18/Clojure-Parallel-I-O) 
and it looks [somewhat](http://www.tbray.org/ongoing/When/200x/2009/11/25/Clojure-grinding) 
promising (but there is [no free lunch](http://www.tbray.org/ongoing/When/200x/2009/11/26/No-Free-Lunch)). 

Saturday 11am I attended an interesting talk on scaling called  [_Synchronous 
Reads, Asynchronous Writes_](http://www.pauldix.net/2009/11/resources-for-synchronous-reads-asynchronous-writes-at-rubyconf-2009.html). 
Paul Dix went on at length on the various strategies his site has used to improve 
performance by off-loading work to services that allow _eventual_ data consistency. 
It looks like a fairly standard infrastructure once you get to a large number 
of servers but it was good to hear the nitty gritty details discussed.

My last session was Gregg Pollack’s discussion of  a number of performance-related 
gems and plugins. It was essentially what he covers in his [screencasts](http://blog.envylabs.com/2009/11/scaling-rails/), 
but since I hadn’t seen them it was well worth hearing it in person. I’ve now 
subscribed to his [Ruby5 podcast ](http://ruby5.envylabs.com/)which I might 
finally listen to on the train.

All in all, it was a very good conference. I met, in person, a lot of interesting 
people that I’d been following in various ways (twitter, blogs, RSS feeds, 
etc.) and I’d love to go again next year – but I’ll try to get a ticket _when 
_they go on sale instead of the night before!

			
			

			[Permalink](http://www.johnbaylor.org/2009/11/30/rubyconf-2009/ "Permanent link to RubyConf 2009")
						

		
		

			
		

	

##  1 Comment [»](#postcomment "Jump to the comments form")			 ## {#1Comment[»](#postcomment"Jumpcommentsform")}

 

	

1. 				
[Jonathan Julian](http://jonathanjulian.com/) said,
				
November 30, 2009 at [1:11 pm](#comment-309 "Permanent link to this comment") 
 
				
				
Thanks for the write-up. Those of us that couldn’t make it use your insights 
to decide which confreaks videos to spend time watching!
			

## Leave a Comment ## {#LeaveaComment}

	
		

		
			

			Name (required)
			

	
			

			E-mail (required)
			

	
			

			URI
			

		
		

		

		

		

		
		

	
	
	




</div>
