---
layout: default
title: small-changes-in-my-life
---

<div id="page">




			
		

			

# 11.08.10 # {#11.08.10}

 
			

## [Small Changes in My Life](http://www.johnbaylor.org/2010/11/08/small-changes-in-my-life/ "Permanent link to Small Changes in My Life") ## {#[SmallChangesinMyLife](http//www.johnbaylor.org/2010/11/08/small-changes-in-my-life/"PermanentlinkSmallChangesinMyLife")}

			

Posted in [health](http://www.johnbaylor.org/category/health/ "View all posts 
in health") at 12:33 pm by JohnB

		
			

The [Alexander Method](http://www.alexandertechnique.com/at.htm "Definitive 
Alexander Method site") uses a set of simple phrases, something like a mantra, 
to help remind students of what they are trying to achieve (everyone studying 
the AM is called a “student” – even if they’ve been teaching it for years). 

- Let your neck be free
- Let your head move forward and up
- Let your back lengthen and widen

One might be tempted to shorten it to “free your neck; move your head forward 
and up; stretch your back” but that would be missing the most crucial, and 
hardest, part of AM – the part that says “_Let your…_“.  This is because you 
really don’t _do_ anything in AM, you _undo_ it – let your body return to its 
natural state: long, expansive and open. This sort of change is like not thinking 
about kangaroos – once you get the idea in your head, its really hard to _not_ 
do it. So it is with your body – once you get in the habit of moving in certain 
ways, and of holding tension in particular places – it is very hard to change. 

The Alexander teacher assists the process in two ways: first some movement 
therapy for about half an hour and then some massage-type therapy on a massage 
table. The movement therapy consists of mostly  just talking the student through 
a series of simple movements – with a few hands-on reminders of where the student 
is holding tension or habitually using their body in a less-than-optimal way. 
The simple movements tend to be the ones we do every day: standing up, sitting 
down, squatting and walking – but with more conscious intention and external 
feedback than we usually bring to our movements. All this mental work to rethink 
the core of our own movement takes its toll – it is hard work! But worth it. 

I have a lesson scheduled today with my AM teacher, [Amira](http://amiraalvarez.com/ 
"Amira Alvarez, my Alexander Method teacher"), and expect it to be quietly 
intense. – like a hard workout that you don’t realize is hard until you feel 
it in your muscles the next day. I’m looking forward to it – no one ever said 
change would be easy…

			
			

			[Permalink](http://www.johnbaylor.org/2010/11/08/small-changes-in-my-life/ "Permanent link to Small Changes in My Life")
						

		
		

			
		

	 
				
	

	

## Leave a Comment ## {#LeaveaComment}

	
		

		
			

			Name (required)
			

	
			

			E-mail (required)
			

	
			

			URI
			

		
		

		

		

		

		
		

	
	
	




</div>
