---
layout: default
title: "PSA: Change All Your Passwords"
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

I've been writing software for a living for over 30 years and can tell you that the recent "<a href="http://heartbleed.com/">heartbleed</a>" security hole is very very serious. Here are the steps that I am taking to mitigate my risk - I suggest others do the same.

h2. Make a List. Check it Twice

Make a list of all the sites you use that require passwords, and that your smartphone or tablet uses. Keep it around for the next time this sort of thing happens (although a bug of this magnitude is rare). My list has about 50 different sites on it - yours is probably shorter. Yes, this is tedious, but it is important. It may also be good to look at <a href="http://mashable.com/2014/04/09/heartbleed-bug-websites-affected/">this list</a> - to really see what definitely needs changingvs. those you might change to be consistent.

h2. Have a Plan

Figure out a strategy for your passwords so you can use a different password on every site. For example, I might use "John5694Apple!" on iTunes and "John5694Google!" for GMail (where "5694" is a number that is easy to remember, like the last 4 digits of my phone number). This way, if one site loses all its passwords, the attackers don't get immediate access to the other web sites you use. Alternatively, you can use a tool such as <a href="https://lastpass.com/">LastPass</a> or <a href="https://agilebits.com/onepassword">1Password</a>.

h2. Check Each Site: Has it Fixed the Bug?

This step is somewhat optional, since most major sites have already closed the barn door on this security hole. But if you're not sure, check each site against <a href="http://filippo.io/Heartbleed/">a tool</a> that tries to see whether it is vulnerable or not. Beware that the results are sometimes inconclusive so check the site's FAQ page or blog to see what they say about HeartBleed - if they don't say anything then <em>you should be worried</em>.

h2. Change Your Password 

Change each password to one that matches your strategy. Now you never have to write down your password or use the same one twice - just follow your strategy.

HINT: if you keep your list in a spreadsheet it might autolink the domain name to the website - which slightly simplifies the tedious process of changing a long list of passwords.

